README.md, before:

# PyVot : Python Variational Optimal Transportation
This package includes the prototype code for computing Monge's optimal transportation (OT)
 and Wasserstein clustering.

* Variational Wasserstein clustering in each iteration leverages variational principles [1]
 to solve optimal transportation. Thus, we name the package PyVot instead of PyVWc for the
  sake of pronunciation. For computing optimal transportation, simply set the max iteration to one.
* Monge's OT maps exist in general when one of the distributions is absolutely continuous. 
In practice, we consider a collection of dense Dirac samples as an approximation.  
* This program implements gradient descent instead of Newton's method to avoid computing
 convex hulls so that it can handle high-dimensional data. 
* The picture below shows a quick comparison to Sinkhorn OT to show the essential difference
 between Monge's OT and Kantorovich's OT. 
More examples can be found in [demo/](demo/README.md).

![alt text](demo/pics/vot_vs_sinkhorn.png?raw=true)

## Dependencies

* Python
* NumPy
* SciPy
* Imageio
* scikit-image
* scikit-learn
* Matplotlib
* PyTorch

To use pip to install prerequisites:
```
pip install --upgrade pip
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## References
#### Citing the package

If you find the code helpful, please cite one of the following articles:

Mi, Liang, Wen Zhang, Xianfeng Gu, and Yalin Wang. "Variational Wasserstein Clustering." In Proceedings of the European Conference on Computer Vision (ECCV), pp. 322-337. 2018.
```
@inproceedings{mi2018variational,
  title={Variational {W}asserstein Clustering},
  author={Mi, Liang and Zhang, Wen and Gu, Xianfeng and Wang, Yalin},
  booktitle={Proceedings of the European Conference on Computer Vision (ECCV)},
  pages={322--337},
  year={2018}
}
```

Mi, Liang, Wen Zhang, and Yalin Wang. "Regularized Wasserstein Means Based on Variational Transportation." arXiv preprint arXiv:1812.00338 (2018).
```
@article{mi2018regularized,
  title={Regularized Wasserstein Means Based on Variational Transportation},
  author={Mi, Liang and Zhang, Wen and Wang, Yalin},
  journal={arXiv preprint arXiv:1812.00338},
  year={2018}
}
```

#### Additional references

[1] Gu, Xianfeng, Feng Luo, Jian Sun, and S-T. Yau. "[Variational principles for Minkowski type problems, discrete optimal transport, and discrete Monge-Ampere equations.](https://arxiv.org/abs/1302.5472)" arXiv preprint arXiv:1302.5472 (2013).

[2] Mi, Liang, Wen Zhang, Xianfeng Gu, and Yalin Wang. "[Variational Wasserstein Clustering.](https://arxiv.org/abs/1806.09045)" In Proceedings of the European Conference on Computer Vision (ECCV), pp. 322-337. 2018.

[3] Mi, Liang, Wen Zhang, and Yalin Wang. "[Regularized Wasserstein Means Based on Variational Transportation.](http://arxiv.org/abs/1812.00338)" arXiv preprint arXiv:1812.00338 (2018).

## Contact
Please contact Liang Mi icemiliang@gmail.com for any issues. Pull requests and issues are welcome.

Commit message:

add barycenters (#22)
* Add barycenters
* Other minor fixes and updates

README.md, after:

# PyVot : Python Variational Optimal Transportation
This package includes the prototype code for computing Monge's optimal transportation (OT)
 and Wasserstein clustering.

* Variational Wasserstein clustering in each iteration leverages variational principles [1]
 to solve optimal transportation. Thus, we name the package PyVot instead of PyVWc for the
  sake of pronunciation. For computing optimal transportation, simply set the max iteration to one.
* Monge's OT maps exist in general when one of the distributions is absolutely continuous. 
In practice, we consider a collection of dense Dirac samples as an approximation.  
* This program implements gradient descent instead of Newton's method to avoid computing
 convex hulls so that it can handle high-dimensional data. 
* The picture below shows 10 random nested ellipses averaged according to the Euclidean distance (left) and the Wasserstein distance (right) as computed by our method. Middle is the Euclidean sum after re-centered. Our method also preserves the topology (rainbow colors) of the ellipses. 
* More examples can be found in [demo/](demo/README.md).

<img src="demo/pics/barycenter.png" width="50%">

## Dependencies

* Python
* NumPy
* SciPy
* Imageio
* scikit-image
* scikit-learn
* Matplotlib
* PyTorch

To use pip to install prerequisites:
```
pip install --upgrade pip
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## References
#### Citing the package

If you find the code helpful, please cite one of the following articles:

Mi, Liang, Wen Zhang, Xianfeng Gu, and Yalin Wang. "Variational Wasserstein Clustering." In Proceedings of the European Conference on Computer Vision (ECCV), pp. 322-337. 2018.
```
@inproceedings{mi2018variational,
  title={Variational {W}asserstein Clustering},
  author={Mi, Liang and Zhang, Wen and Gu, Xianfeng and Wang, Yalin},
  booktitle={Proceedings of the European Conference on Computer Vision (ECCV)},
  pages={322--337},
  year={2018}
}
```

Mi, Liang, Wen Zhang, and Yalin Wang. "Regularized Wasserstein Means Based on Variational Transportation." arXiv preprint arXiv:1812.00338 (2018).
```
@article{mi2018regularized,
  title={Regularized Wasserstein Means Based on Variational Transportation},
  author={Mi, Liang and Zhang, Wen and Wang, Yalin},
  journal={arXiv preprint arXiv:1812.00338},
  year={2018}
}
```

Mi, Liang, Tianshu Yu, José Bento, Wen Zhang, Baoxin Li, and Yalin Wang, “[Variational Wasserstein Barycenters for Geometric Clustering]()”. 
```

```

#### Additional references

[1] Gu, Xianfeng, Feng Luo, Jian Sun, and S-T. Yau. "[Variational principles for Minkowski type problems, discrete optimal transport, and discrete Monge-Ampere equations.](https://arxiv.org/abs/1302.5472)" arXiv preprint arXiv:1302.5472 (2013).

[2] Mi, Liang, Wen Zhang, Xianfeng Gu, and Yalin Wang. "[Variational Wasserstein Clustering.](https://arxiv.org/abs/1806.09045)" In Proceedings of the European Conference on Computer Vision (ECCV), pp. 322-337. 2018.

[3] Mi, Liang, Wen Zhang, and Yalin Wang. "[Regularized Wasserstein Means Based on Variational Transportation.](http://arxiv.org/abs/1812.00338)" arXiv preprint arXiv:1812.00338 (2018).

[4] Mi, Liang, Tianshu Yu, José Bento, Wen Zhang, Baoxin Li, and Yalin Wang, “[Variational Wasserstein Barycenters for Geometric Clustering]()”. 

## Contact
Please contact Liang Mi icemiliang@gmail.com for any issues. Pull requests and issues are welcome.
